---
layout: default
---

Student Degree Progress
==========================

## Overview

Runs [APAS](#apas) and saves the results. After saving, derives [Facts](#facts) about the APAS that can be used for reporting and analytics.

### Which students are audited?

Currently SDP focuses on Undergrad students at UMNTC.

### When does SDP audit a student?

There are a collection of tools that watch for changes to Student or Degree data. When that data changes, those tools tell SDP to audit the affected stdunts.

Also, another tool will tell SDP to audit any Student with a [Stale Audit](#stale_audit).

### What gets audited?

When SDP [audits](#audit) a student, is uses live PeopleSoft data to determine the students [Pursued Degrees](#pursued_degree). SDP then audits any of those degrees that meet the following criteria:

- Are for the UGRD acad_career
- Are for the UMNTC institution
- Are not Rochester degrees (e.g., acad_prog of 34UGR)
- Are degree seeking (e.g., acad_plan_type is not NDG)
- Have an admit term of 0999 or later

If SDP has a [Frozen Audit](#frozen) for any of these degrees, it does not re-audit the degree.

### What gets retained?

SDP keeps one APAS for each [Degree](#degree). APAS for Degrees the student is no longer pursuing are removed.

## Analytics

Focuses on [Reportable Audits](#reportable).

- Work with Fritz

## Development

- To do

## Dictionary

### APAS<a name="apas"></a>

An academic progress report generated by the DARS system. A single APAS will report on the progress a student has mad in a single degree program.

### Audit<a name="audit"></a>

An APAS that has been copied into SDP and generated Facts about.

### Facts<a name="facts"></a>

A small bit of information that has been calculated by analyzing the APAS. There are a lot of these. Examples include:

- Credit Count
- Degree Complete
- Missing Requirements
- Degree-applicable credits per quarter

#### Degree Complete Fact

One of the more important facts. An Audit has this fact if Peoplesoft says that the 'prog_status' is 'CM'.

### Reportable<a name="reportable"></a>

A type of Audit classification. An Audit is Reportable if is Processed and has no [Dars Errors](#dars_error).

### Processed<a name="processed"></a>

A type of Audit classification. When we've finished copying and analyzing the APAS data, an audit is Processed.

### Frozen<a name="frozen"></a>

A type of Audit classification. An Audit is Frozen if is Reportable and has the Degree Complete fact.

### Dars Error<a name="dars_error"></a>

A type of Audit classification. An Audit is Dars Error if it exhibits any of the known Dars Error conditions. Those are:

- SDP could not audit the degree because it could not find the Degree's [Dprog](#dprog)
- Dars tried to run the APAS but failed
- The APAS ran, but a course is missing from the 3 'standard buckets' at the end of the APAS report

### Degree<a name="degree"></a>

SDP's term for the joining of PeopleSoft's Acad_Prog and Acad_Plan tables to Dars' Dprog table. The join is done through the 'Crosswalk' table.

### Pursued Degree<a name="pursued_degree"></a>

The future-most effective-dated [Degrees](#degree) for a student. When SDP audits a student, it audits their pursued degrees.

If PeopleSoft's acad_prog & plan tables state that a student is a Chemistry major today, but that the student will become a Biology major next week, then Biology is the student's Pursued Degree.

Pursued Degrees only take effective-date into account. They don't look at the degree status. A degree that is CM (complete) or DC (discontinued) is still considered to be one of the student's Pursued Degrees

### Dprog<a name="dprog"></a>

Along with Instcd, one of the two main keys Dars uses to identify a degree program. Without a Dprog and Instcd, SDP can not run an APAS for the degree.

### Stale Audit<a name="stale_audit"></a>

An Audit that is:
- [Processed](#processed)
- Over 4 weeks old
- For a Degree that has a status other than 'DC' or 'CM'
